EBCDIC, Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code
CICS, Customer Information Control System
DASD, Direct Access Storage Device
IMS, Information Management System
RACF, Resource Access Control Facility
MIPS, Million Instructions Per Second
REXX, REstructured eXtended eXecutor
zAAP, z Application Assist Processor
BMC, Boulett Moores Cloer (founders)
CLIST, Command List language
TSO, Time Sharing Option
ISPF, Interactive System Productivity Facility
MVS, Multiple Virtual Storage
MFT, Multitasking with a Fixed number of Tasks
MVT, Multitasking with a Variable number of Tasks
VSAM, Virtual Storage Access Method (an IBM DASD file storage access method)
IDCAMS, Access Method Services (creates and maintains VSAM data sets)
BRMS, Business Rule Management System
TBTF, Too Big Too Fail
SOA, Service-Oriented Architecture
RPG, Report Program Generator (from IBM)
AIX, Advanced Interactive eXecutive (IBM OS based on UNIX)
SOAP, Simple Object Access Protocol
MFaaS, MainFrame as a Service
SDSF, System Display and Search Facility (or Spools Search and Displays Facility)
BRMS, Business Rules Management System (or Software)
ABAP, Advanced Business Application Programming
ERP, Enterprise Resource Planning
SAP, Systems Applications and Products (in Data Processin). Name of the software and the company.


However encyclopedic the knowledge of a COBOL cowboy who comes <galloping in on his stallion /strikethrough> hobbling in with his walker, it won't be enough. 

What about office culture? What's an apple-cheeked millenial* to do during an awkward pause with Ma and Pa Kettle at the water cooler? (Just smile and nod if one of them makes a Woody Herman reference.) 

* The oldest millenials are now 40. 

What 

What, they can hack into the FBI, CIA, they can remotely launch a NASA rocket over a dial-up modem, but 

Can we hire one of these kids to do this for us? Give him a prison furlough if he's locked up for a previous hacking conviction. Hell, he might already be up for a COVID-related early release if he's a non-violent offender.  And while were at it, 
Where's a labor-wreckin' robot when you need one? 
You know, if we asked nicely. 
All , 
we can't get a freakin' COBOL mainframe in New Jersey to print unemployment checks? Are you f***in' KIDDing me?!? 

But I digress...

Software engineering is a difficult subject. 


-

Finally, the people of the State of New Jersey itself. 
Don't teach that homeless guy how to build an app. Teach him COBOL! 
And not just Jersey. 

Teaching javascript to african immigrants? [clip of troll TED talk Sam Hyde?] No, we're teaching _COBOL_ to African immigrants! 

[CA DMV migrating from assembly] 
Assembly language is per se difficult to write and maintain. COBOL isn't. 
Avoiding COBOL is like avoiding brussel sprouts. Completely understandable, but a bad idea in the long run. Part of the reason we're in this mess is that we won't to eat our vegetables. 
[you lack discipline! Schwarzenegger https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yGIj2KRB9Ys] 
Gov Schwarzenegger has a message for you COBOL fearing girly-men: You lack discipline! 



